---
layout: post
title: 'AWS: Route 53'
date: '2023-03-04 21:53:53 +0530'
categories: [AWS]
tags: [aws, dns]
---

## Amazon Route 53

Amazon Route 53 is a highly scalable and reliable Domain Name System (DNS) web service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It allows users to register domain names, route traffic to different resources, such as EC2 instances, S3 buckets, and load balancers, and improve the availability and performance of their applications by leveraging various routing policies and health checks.

Some of the key features of Amazon Route 53 include:

1. Domain registration: Amazon Route 53 allows users to search and register domain names, transfer domains, and manage DNS records.
2. DNS management: Users can manage DNS records, such as A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, TXT, and SRV records, and create subdomains.
3. Traffic routing: Amazon Route 53 enables users to route traffic to different resources, such as EC2 instances, S3 buckets, and load balancers, based on various routing policies, such as Latency-Based Routing, Geo DNS, Weighted Round Robin, and Failover.
4. Health checks: Amazon Route 53 provides health checks that monitor the health of resources and automatically route traffic to healthy resources. Users can also set up alarms and notifications for failed health checks.
5. DNS security: Amazon Route 53 supports DNSSEC, which provides cryptographic authentication and integrity protection for DNS responses, and also enables users to configure DNS Firewall rules to block DNS queries from malicious sources.

Overall, Amazon Route 53 is a powerful DNS service that can help users improve the availability and performance of their applications by providing reliable and scalable DNS infrastructure.

### Hosted Zone

In Amazon Route 53, a hosted zone is a container that holds information about how you want to route traffic for a specific domain, such as example.com. A **hosted zone includes information about the domain names and subdomains that you want to manage, as well as the DNS records that define how traffic should be routed to various resources**.

Here are some key points about Route 53 zones:

1. Each hosted zone contains a collection of DNS records that define how traffic should be routed for a particular domain.
2. You can create multiple hosted zones for a single domain, each with different configurations for traffic routing and DNS record management.
3. When you create a hosted zone, Route 53 automatically generates four name servers that you can use to delegate the domain to Route 53. You must update your domain registrar's name server settings to point to these Route 53 name servers.
4. You can create both public and private hosted zones in Route 53. Public hosted zones are visible to the internet, while private hosted zones are only visible to resources within a specified VPC.
5. Route 53 also supports the concept of a "default" hosted zone, which is automatically created for every new VPC that you create in your AWS account. This default hosted zone is used for resolving DNS names for resources within the VPC.

Overall, hosted zones are a fundamental component of Route 53's DNS infrastructure, and they enable you to manage and route traffic for your domains with a high degree of flexibility and control.

### Routing Policies

AWS provides several routing policies for its Amazon Route 53 domain name system (DNS) web service. These policies determine how Route 53 responds to DNS queries and how it routes traffic to your AWS resources. Here are some of the most commonly used routing policies:

1. **Simple Routing Policy**: Associates a single resource record set with a DNS name, such as a domain name, and returns that record set in response to DNS queries. This policy is useful for routing traffic to a single resource, such as a website or web application.
2. **Weighted Routing Policy**: Distributes traffic across multiple resources based on weights that you specify. This policy is useful for testing the performance of new resources or for balancing traffic between resources.
3. **Latency Routing Policy**: Routes traffic to the AWS region that provides the lowest latency for the user making the DNS query. This policy is useful for reducing latency and improving the user experience.
4. **Geolocation Routing Policy**: Routes traffic based on the geographic location of the user making the DNS query. This policy is useful for delivering localized content or services to users in specific regions.
5. **Failover Routing Policy**: Routes traffic to a backup resource if the primary resource becomes unavailable. This policy is useful for ensuring high availability of critical resources.
6. **Multi-Value Answer Routing Policy**: Returns multiple IP addresses for a DNS name, with each IP address having an equal chance of being returned in response to a query. This policy is useful for distributing traffic across multiple resources.